---
layout: post
title: Public Trust Building Tour
location: Wellington City
img: /assets/uploaded/public-trust-hall-whw20-min.jpg
event_date: 12pm & 1pm Tues 27 Oct
host:
  name: Public Trust Hall
  blurb: Situated in the Public Trust Building, this splendid space has been
    transformed into an iconic heritage venue.
  website: www.publictrusthall.co.nz
  email: hello@publictrusthall.co.nz
tag:
  - Tour
---
**Tour the interior of the Public Trust Building including discussion of the architectural features, the Heritage foyer, Public Trust Hall, the earthquake-strengthening and refurbishment work undertaken since 2013.** 

Completed in 1908, Public Trust Hall was originally the principle banking chamber for the Public Trust. Our Edwardian Baroque architecture features extensive use of unique plaster mouldings, cornices and corbels. In 2019 a major refurbishment transformed this space into a sophisticated and contemporary venue right in the heart of Wellington.

In 1982 the building was sold into private ownership and unsympathetically divided into small offices and shops. It was later saved from demolition by a public campaign and received a Grade One Heritage Listing. More recently, the building was purchased by Wellington property developers, Maurice and Kaye Clark, who undertook an ambitious programme of extensive and complex earthquake re-strengthening and renovations. The upper floors of the Public Trust Building are occupied by the Ministry for Culture and Heritage.

The tour allows people to get a behind-the-scenes look at the best building in Wellington.

Maximum number of 12 persons per tour. 

<br>

**No booking required**

**Location:** 131-135 Lambton Quay, Wellington

**Cost:** Free

**Contact:** hello@publictrusthall.co.nz

**Duration:** 45 minutes

**Accessibility:** The tour is suitable for all levels of ability as we have an accessible building. The able-bodied will be expected to climb some stairs so please wear suitable shoes.



<iframe class="instagram-media instagram-media-rendered" id="instagram-embed-0" src="https://www.instagram.com/p/B7H1Z7ypsz7/embed/captioned/?cr=1&amp;v=12&amp;wp=1080&amp;rd=https%3A%2F%2Fwellingtonheritageweek.co.nz&amp;rp=%2Fevent%2Fwainuiomata-historical-community-exhibition%2F#%7B%22ci%22%3A0%2C%22os%22%3A310.95499999355525%2C%22ls%22%3A164.63500005193055%2C%22le%22%3A184.0500000398606%7D" allowtransparency="true" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" height="756" data-instgrm-payload-id="instagram-media-payload-0" scrolling="no" style="background: white;max-width: 540px;width: calc(100% - 3px);border-radius: 3px;border: 1px solid rgb(219, 219, 219);box-shadow: none;display: block;margin: 0px 0px 12px;min-width: 290px;padding: 0px;"></iframe>